---
layout: post
title: 20/20: Of lessons (un)learned
date: 2008-10-02T12:15:20Z
categories: ponderings
---

And so we thought. There is the common notion that hindsight is always&mdash;and shall always be&mdash;<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visual_acuity" target="_blank">20/20</a>. But apparently in the current financial crisis centered in the little street in downtown Manhattan, it proves that one country's hindsight needs an appointment with the ophthalmologist.

The Great Depression&mdash;as its name suggests&mdash;was incredibly great. It affected not only the country where it originated from, but as has always been the case, it affected other countries worldwide, and unfortunately some of them were not able to recover quickly unlike the country of origin who came back very much alive and kicking. It was truly one of the greatest lessons the world has encountered, and should have learned from&mdash;a very humbling experience to the capitalist world I should add. But the Great Depression was more than 70 years ago, way back when my grandma was still my age and my aunties and uncles were still not born. Still its intensity should have been more than a slap in the face&mdash;that the capitalist system however great has its flaws and that it should not always be left on its own much like leaving a child to play by himself. And that laws should be made to control this hyperactivity that kids like the capitalist system often fall victim to.

People should be smarter after a very hard lesson&mdash;or after a very bad spanking&mdash;come on, we pride ourselves of being the most intelligent creatures that roam the planet, it is high time we prove it. And after all, the very best of lessons are learned <em>the hard way.</em> But people in the big country seem to be just more protected than they once were prior to the Great Depression&mdash;smarter? I dunno. Just more protected. :) Well at least they are more protected. I guess protection is a form of getting smarter, in a way. (Unlike almost all of the people in a country I know…)

But apparently they are not. These things in Wall Street should not be happening had people been smarter or had foresight been visiting the eye clinic more often than it should. I guess we could not blame them for not learning or not thoroughly learning from such a good lesson. As I have said, the Great Depression was more than 70 years ago and its predecessors were more than centuries ago. The breed that had experienced the difficulties are most probably dead. Economists are not great seers. Well they are really, they just could not pinpoint the exact time when things, such as the ones happening right now, would happen—which makes them <em>ungreat.</em>

When the Asian Financial Crisis threatened to decimate the population of the Asian tigers, the high people there in the big country forbid—probably, on the pain of death—the premiers, the presidents of the Asian countries to bail out their companies suffering from the financial meltdown. Well, they did not. It was the IMF and the World Bank that did. And luckily for some, they recovered well and quickly for them to pay off their debts from those lending institutions. (Again, this situation does not apply to the country I know).

Now, in the big country, the government is planning to bail out the <em>bad assets</em> of the ailing companies in order to revive the economy in the grips of a recession. (Technically speaking, a recession happens if there are two quarters of negative growth, high unemployment rate etc. but in the current scenario, it is highly inevitable to call it a recession.)

Why not let them fail as they have so badly wanted for the Asian Financial Crisis? Whatever happened to practice what you preach?

It was such a bad mistake that the Clinton administration let the economy go surplus. The big country then thought it would last forever. And so did his successor. (Well, his successor squandered it in war efforts, but let us not go to that shall we?) :)

History does not repeat itself. It is the stupidity of people that repeats. And stupidity and inactivity always weigh heavily.
